

README  Poisson/Superfish on OSX 10.6

July 1, 2010  David Lawrence

This directory contains files related to running the
poisson/superfish suite on OSX Snow Leopard. The
programs are distributed as windows binaries, but
are compatible with WINE and so may be run using it.
Because WINE is available on other platforms (namely,
Linux) much of these instructions are applicable for
those as well.

Obtaining WINE for OSX
-----------------------
I downloaded wine from here:

http://winebottler.kronenberg.org/

This site provided a disk image with the wine and
winebottler applications. I dragged them into my
private Applications folder. One thing to note about
these: at first I tried to use the WineBottler
application, but that seems geared towards packages
with a single executable and so isn't really appropriate
here. Also, running the Wine app by double clicking it
doesn't seem to do much. Because several programs must
be run to produce a usable map, scripting the sequence
using the "startwine" script provided with the Wine
app seemed to be the way to go. (See sections below.)


Setting up environment
-----------------------
The environment should have 2 things:

1. "wine" in your path
2. LANL variable set to the LANL directory that contains
   the poisson/superfish program suite

For my installation on OSX, I actually have "wine" set
as an alias to the "startwine" script in the directory
Wine.app/Contents/MacOS. The startwine script sets up
some other environment variables just before running the
actual wine executable. I was a little concerned that
setting these in my .cshrc file so I could run "wine"
without the script may lead to problems later on. This
was because it needs LD_LIBRARY_PATH (not DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH)
and DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH both of which seem foreign
to Darwin systems.

Running the programs
-----------------------
An example script can be found in the "example" directory.
It is called "run_all.csh". It is probably easiest to
just look there for an example of how to run each of the 
programs.
